# CAN Bus and CANopen Standard for Building and Home Automation, Analysis for Feasibility

Building and home automation is an essential part of energy efficiency efforts around the world. Wired and wireless communication protocols help implement the functionalities necessary for these automation systems. Because of the significant popularity increase in IoT solutions, wireless field-level protocols have been the main focus of development. Consequently, the adoption and development of wired fieldbus solutions have slowed down. Therefore, this thesis determines if CAN bus combined with CANopen standard is feasible for wired building and home automation to oﬀer a matured low-cost alternative for existing fieldbuses in the industry. The proposed wired solution could decrease the over-reliance on wireless technologies and complement those networks where possible. For this purpose, a proof-of-concept home automation system was developed using both custom-designed and commercial hardware with open-source software. The developed fieldbus network was additionally tested with a series of transmission tests to verify its performance. As a result, a CANopen fieldbus network was integrated into a well-known open-source IoT solution. Additionally, the underlying network performance was confirmed with some drawbacks noticed regarding the chosen microcontroller. This work presents the potential of CAN bus and CANopen standard in the context of building and home automation and justifies further research into the topic.